README.md, before:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/radarlabs/s2.svg?style=svg&circle-token=ed5b9fcba959e9b786eb5e8d714f9715253e020c)](https://circleci.com/gh/radarlabs/s2)

Node.js JavaScript & TypeScript bindings for [Google S2](http://s2geometry.io/).

## What is S2?

S2 is a library from Google for easily storing, indexing, and retrieving geographic locations.

Geographic regions can be indexed by S2 cell ids of various levels in a data store and then later retrieved by these ids for extremely quick geolocation lookups.

## The Library

The goal of this library is to maintain node.js TypeScript bindings for the latest version of [Google's C++ S2 library](https://github.com/google/s2geometry).

Other JavaScript projects available on GitHub appear unmaintained.

The project has been built against node's N-API, meaning that it's compatible across node.js versions.

As of today, the library is built and tested run against node.js 8-12. The library has been in production use at [Radar](radar.io) and has been built against OS X and Linux. Feel free to open an issue or PR if you'd like other platform support.

See [test.sh](https://github.com/radarlabs/s2/blob/master/test.sh) for more details.

## Usage

To install:

```
npm install @radarlabs/s2
```

To run tests (you'll need Docker):
```
./test.sh
```

To generate a covering for a given area:

```
const s2 = require('@radarlabs/s2');

# an array of lat/lng pairs representing a region (a part of Brooklyn, in this case)
const loopLLs = [[40.70113825399865,-73.99229764938354],[40.70113825399865,-73.98766279220581],[40.70382234072197,-73.98766279220581],[40.70382234072197,-73.99229764938354]];

# map to an array of normalized s2.LatLng
const s2LLs = loopLLs.map(([lat, lng]) => (new s2.LatLng(lat, lng)));

# generate s2 cells to cover this polygon
const s2level = 14;
const covering = s2.RegionCoverer.getCoveringTokens(s2LLs, { min: s2level, max: s2level });
covering.forEach(c => console.log(c));

> 89c25a31
> 89c25a33
> 89c25a35
> 89c25a37

# check if a point is contained inside this region
const point = new s2.CellId(new s2.LatLng(40.70248844447621, -73.98991584777832));
const pointAtLevel14 = point.parent(s2Level);
console.log(pointAtLevel14.token());
> 89c25a31

const coveringSet = new Set(covering);
console.log(coveringSet.contains(pointAtLevel14.token()));
> true

```

Check if a cell is contained in another:

```
const c1 = s2.CellId.fromToken('89c25a37')
const c2 = s2.CellId.fromToken('89c25')
c2.contains(c1)
> true
c1.contains(c2)
> false
```

 If you'd like to see more functionality, feel free to open an issue or create a pull request.

More detailed usage can be found in the [tests](https://github.com/radarlabs/s2/tree/master/test) folder.

## Resources

- [A detailed explanation on the S2 library](http://s2geometry.io/)
- [Sidewalk Lab's S2 map for visualizing S2 tokens](https://s2.sidewalklabs.com/regioncoverer/)

Commit message:

Introduce CellUnion type (#4)
* Introduce CellUnion type

- Also make object creation more efficient with External type

* Fix types

* Add BigInt support for S2 IDs

* Open-source cleanup

* Add bigint CellUnion and RegionCoverer APIs

* Fix link

* Add CHANGELOG and update packages

* Add another README example

README.md, after:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/radarlabs/s2.svg?style=svg&circle-token=ed5b9fcba959e9b786eb5e8d714f9715253e020c)](https://circleci.com/gh/radarlabs/s2)

Node.js JavaScript & TypeScript bindings for [Google S2](http://s2geometry.io/).

## What is S2?

S2 is a library from Google for easily storing, indexing, and retrieving geographic locations.

Geographic regions can be indexed by S2 cell ids of various levels in a data store and then later retrieved by these ids for extremely quick geolocation lookups.

## The Library

The goal of this library is to maintain Node.js TypeScript bindings for the latest version of [Google's C++ S2 library](https://github.com/google/s2geometry).

Other JavaScript projects available on GitHub appear unmaintained.

The project has been built against Node's N-API, meaning that it's compatible across Node.js versions that support BigInt.
This means that Node.js version 9 and below are unsupported.

As of today, the library is built and tested against Node.js 10-12. The library has been in production use at [Radar](https://radar.io) and has been built against OS X and Linux. Feel free to open an issue or PR if you'd like other platform support.

See [test.sh](https://github.com/radarlabs/s2/blob/master/test.sh) for more details.

## Usage

To install:

```
npm install @radarlabs/s2
```

To run tests (you'll need Docker):
```
./test.sh
```

S2 Cells can be generated from BigInt S2 IDs or string tokens:

```
const s2 = require('@radarlabs/s2');

const cell1 = new s2.CellId(9926595695177891840n);
console.log(cell1.token());
> 89c25a31

const cell2 = new s2.CellId('89c25a31');
console.log(cell2.id());
> 9926595695177891840n

```

To generate a covering for a given area:

```
const s2 = require('@radarlabs/s2');

# an array of lat/lng pairs representing a region (a part of Brooklyn, in this case)
const loopLLs = [[40.70113825399865,-73.99229764938354],[40.70113825399865,-73.98766279220581],[40.70382234072197,-73.98766279220581],[40.70382234072197,-73.99229764938354]];

# map to an array of normalized s2.LatLng
const s2LLs = loopLLs.map(([lat, lng]) => (new s2.LatLng(lat, lng)));

# generate s2 cells to cover this polygon
const s2level = 14;
const covering = s2.RegionCoverer.getCoveringTokens(s2LLs, { min: s2level, max: s2level });
covering.forEach(c => console.log(c));

> 89c25a31
> 89c25a33
> 89c25a35
> 89c25a37

# check if a point is contained inside this region
const point = new s2.CellId(new s2.LatLng(40.70248844447621, -73.98991584777832));
const pointAtLevel14 = point.parent(s2Level);
console.log(pointAtLevel14.token());
> 89c25a31

const coveringSet = new Set(covering);
console.log(coveringSet.contains(pointAtLevel14.token()));
> true

```

Check if a cell is contained in another:

```
const c1 = s2.CellId.fromToken('89c25a37')
const c2 = s2.CellId.fromToken('89c25')
c2.contains(c1)
> true
c1.contains(c2)
> false
```

 If you'd like to see more functionality, feel free to open an issue or create a pull request.

More detailed usage can be found in the [tests](https://github.com/radarlabs/s2/tree/master/test) folder.

## Versioning

The Node S2 is library is at its infancy (version 0.0.1), so APIs are likely to change.
In order to help with versioning, we publish TypeScript bindings so that your compiler can check
if anything has changed. To keep up with updates, see [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/radarlabs/s2/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## Resources

- [A detailed explanation on the S2 library](http://s2geometry.io/)
- [Sidewalk Lab's S2 map for visualizing S2 tokens](https://s2.sidewalklabs.com/regioncoverer/)
